Previously, on "Heartland"...
Hey, check out that one.
You see those markings?
It's a classic Appaloosa mustang.
Come on, let's go!
Go on!
It's a wild horse, Amy.
Not easy to gentle.
Let me at least try.
My own corporate equine retreat.
In other words, a dude ranch.
Surprise!
Happy birthday, honey.
I wanted to thank you
for giving me a chance.
You know, I've got a lot of years
to make up for.
- Dad, it's okay.
- I do and I will.
Hey, Jack.
Why did you bring him here,
Grandpa?
AMY:
Run him up to the fence.
CALEB: Well, I'm trying,
but somebody put this tree in my way.
Nearly poked out an eye.
AMY: Oh, come on, Caleb!
Cowboy up!
- AMY: You got him?
- CALEB: I got him.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
CALEB: Come on.
Good boy!
That's it. Just keep moving.
I got him cornered.
Oh, yeah? Like you had him cornered
when you let him out of the pen?
CALEB:
I thought I had it settled.
AMY:
Oh, well, you were wrong.
Okay. I'm sorry.
I guess he moved faster
than I thought he would.
MALLORY: Go left!
No, go right!
Do you want me to help?
Mallory, stay right there!
Come on!
Amy, I don't think he likes you.
Hey.
I figure we could use another hand.
Okay, Mallory,
if you want to do something...
Welcome home?
I guess I better get to work.
Don't want to wear out that welcome.
Arert you supposed to be doing
something with that mustang?
I'm off the clock.
Oh, really?
And how long do you think
that is gonna last?
How long have you got?
Hey, Scott.
Amy needs you in the field.
I'd say about five seconds.
Wait here. I'll be back.
Uh-huh.
While you're waiting,
what are we gonna do
about the Ty-Caleb situation?
What are we gonna do
about the what?
You know. Ty's back.
And Caleb doesn't know about...
you know.
Well, the only thing I know
is if I was hoping to stay
somewhere all summer,
I might consider
doing something useful
instead of wasting
other people's time
- with a bunch of...
- Manure.
I was just getting to that.
You know, she's got a point,
Grandpa.
Are you sure bringing Ty back here
was such a good idea?
I made him a promise, Lou.
I'm gonna stick to it.
AMY: Whoa.
Easy, boy.
[Horn honks]
[Horse neighs]
Hey, Amy!
Why'd you have to go and honk, Dad?
We just about had him
in the pen.
Well, I just couldn't wait
to show you what I got here.
This guy's name is Storm.
He's a 6-year-old Dutch Warmblood.
That's what the papers say,
anyway.
- He's beautiful.
- Yeah.
- Well, what's wrong with him?
- Nothing.
Well, except he's a day late
for your birthday.
My birthday.
What, you want me to tie
a big red bow around his neck?
You got me a horse
for my birthday?
A horse for your birthday.
Really?
Happy birthday!
AMY: Wow! Thank you!
He's incredible.
Yes, he is.
Hello. Hello.
♪ And at the break of day ♪
♪ You sank into your dream ♪
♪ You dreamer ♪
Well, don't stop on my account.
Oh, no. I was...
We were done anyway.
That horse looks good on you.
I can't wait to try him over fences.
I don't know. I want to, but...
But you just don't want
to rush things.
Yeah.
Yeah. Exactly.
I just want to have a feel
for him before...
So, how's Spartan been doing?
Fine.
Well, he looks great.
Why wouldn't he?
Okay. I'm sorry I asked.
Oh, good.
Well, at least you're sorry
for something.
Amy, come on.
Just turn him out, okay?
Looks like you're not the only one
who's been replaced.
So, what did that guy used to do
around here?
It's complicated.
There's a lot you need to know.
So, you settling in okay?
Yeah.
I mean, more or less.
Leaning towards the less.
You met Caleb.
I don't know
what I'm doing here, Jack.
You're working.
Unless you've got a better offer.
Someplace you'd rather be.
As for Amy...
Well, don't let her run you off.
Hey, Lou.
Hey.
Missed you this morning.
How you doing?
Busy, Dad.
- What about Amy?
- She's good.
Well, I just...
You know, I wasrt sure.
Is everything okay with Storm?
Are you kidding, Dad?
She's thrilled.
I mean, come on, a present like that.
Who wouldn't be?
Well, I got something for you, too.
Oh, my God.
Is that...?
I just picked them up
at the post office.
Oh, Dad!
Thank you!
Thank you.
What are you doing
with that horse?
Trying to take the edge off.
Why don't you ride him?
He's Amy's horse.
Hey, easy, easy, easy.
I'm betting
you're not much of a rider.
Havert done much lately.
And you obviously don't know
too much about horses.
What brought you back here?
The fresh mountain air?
Yeah, that's it.
It's too bad, though.
'Cause all I'm smelling right now
is a whole lot of bull.
So it's got to be something happened
between you and Amy.
Yeah, you been gone
for a while, huh?
Guess things sort of changed
since you left.
Look, here's the deal, man.
You want to give me advice
about horses?
I'm good with that.
But you telling me
what's going on with Amy...
Fair is fair.
I figure she's capable
of doing that all on her own.
Well, I take it you're inviting
yourself for supper.
No. Not at all.
I'm just trying to be helpful.
Show you there's no downside
to me staying here.
Mallory, I figure
I ought to know your upsides
and your downsides by now.
I made a promise to your folks,
and I'll more than likely
be keeping it.
More than likely?
How much more?
Hey, everyone.
Good news!
The architects' plans
have finally arrived.
For the equestrian retreat.
Did you get any orange juice?
Mallory will be eating with us,
so you might want
to double up on,
well, pretty well everything.
Oh, I get it.
Nobody gives a damn.
What was I thinking?
You know, Jack,
Lou didn't just stay in Hudson
so she could buy groceries
and wash dishes.
Well, I wonder what she thinks
she'll be doing
if she gets that dude ranch
up and running.
[Horse neighs]
I guess it's true.
That horse really doesn't like me.
No, it's not that.
Listen.
There's another one out there.
AMY: Or another ghost horse.
One only you can hear.
It's weird, though.
What is?
I mean, did you ever think
we'd see him again?
You put your life on the line
to set him free.
That was different.
Yeah, a lot of things
are different.
And whose fault is that?
That's great, Lou.
And each unit has its own washroom
with its own eco-toilet.
Wow, awesome.
Excuse me.
Go ahead.
JACK: Don't forget that baling twine
in town.
Well, what about the mustang?
You need any help getting
those antibiotics into him?
Well, I figure me, Ty, and Scott,
we can handle it.
Yeah, Ty's the real expert
at mustangs.
Hey, Jack.
Have you seen these plans?
Grandpa's not interested.
Now, I never said that.
Oh, really? My mistake.
All right, Lou.
I'll take a look.
Sorry. Not now, Grandpa.
I have a very busy day
ahead of me.
Okay, then.
When would be convenient?
I'll have to get back to you on that.
Yeah, I don't get it.
Amy gets near this horse,
and he freaks out.
Stallions don't like to be
bossed around by mares.
Are you saying
my granddaughter's bossy?
Runs in the family.
[Laughter]
I don't see any signs of infection,
but better safe than sorry.
Still, you got to wonder.
Each day he's handled,
he's gonna be a little less wild
than he was the day before.
And a lot less likely
to survive on his own.
Let him go.
Oh, my God. How am I
gonna remember all this?
It's called studying.
You do it at home before a test.
Ooh, let me guess.
Chemistry?
Yeah, I failed that one
back in the day.
So, tuna salad times two?
I did okay with math.
Then, make that three.
Light dressing. Extra dressing.
Dressing on the side.
- I get that right?
- Always do.
I love her.
Ever since she started working here,
I actually have free time.
If she ever left,
my life would totally suck.
So, Amy, now that Ty's back,
what's the deal with you and him?
No deal.
He's just working at our place.
It's so unfair.
How come all the hot guys
work for you?
Oh, until you hook up with them?
And then they disappear.
Ben went to university.
So I can hardly
call that disappearing.
Hey, Amy.
Skipping school again?
No. It's lunchtime, so...
Oh.
- You're drooling.
- I am not!
He's totally droolwon'thy,
but he's not your type.
And more importantly,
you're not his type.
But I definitely am.
Ashley.
What about school?
Don't wait for me.
I'll get a ride with Caleb.
So, we're gonna lay
the foundations right here.
Here?
Yeah. Dad thought this was the...
The architects really liked this site.
Plus, it's exactly what you wanted.
Really?
It meets all of your conditions.
You can't see it
from the house or the barn.
What are your plans
for these bunkhouses?
Oh, we're gonna tear those down.
My grandfather built these
with his own hands.
Grandpa, they're practically
falling down already.
No one's tearing down
these bunkhouses.
But I can't build my guest cabins
with those shacks in the way.
Then, I guess you just
can't build them, Lou.
Amy!
Where'd you get that horse?
My dad.
He was a birthday present.
Wow!
Sweet!
Yeah, yeah, he's a great mover.
He doesn't really respect
the jumps, though.
That's because they're too low.
That's Storm, isn't it?
Yeah. How'd you know?
I saw him at the international ring
last year.
He was awesome.
So all you have to do
is crank up the jumps, and that's it.
CALEB: Hey!
I would help you, but I...
Ashley, he's working.
Well, so am I.
Hi, Caleb.
How you doing?
So...
Jack.
I was hoping to see your boss.
Heard he was out of the hospital.
Ray? No. He's in the city.
He went to see his lawyer.
He said he hasn't rewritten his will
since his wife passed away.
A couple of us
could probably say the same.
What, you still got something
in there for me, Jack?
I see Ray's still running
those longhorns.
Yeah, it's a funny thing,
Ray and those longhorns.
He's got a thousand head
of whiteface,
and he cares more
about those two.
A pair of longhorns.
It's the horns are won'th more
than the cow.
Aw, it's not so much the money
with him.
It's more their symbolic value.
Like that horse you bought Amy.
Un-un.
No, that's all about the money.
I missed a lot of birthdays, Jack.
And that's how
you're gonna make up for it?
What about you?
Why don't you look
at your attitude, huh?
Why don't you ask yourself
why you're stopping Lou
from tearing down those shacks?
Well, maybe you want to mind
your own business.
No, it's my business, Jack.
It is my business.
It's my daughter.
It doesn't look good,
you letting your misguided sentiment
get in the way.
Last time I checked,
Heartland wasrt a dude ranch.
It's my ranch.
So I get the final say
on what gets built
and what gets torn down.
You're the boss.
At least you got something right.
So, Jack said no?
I'm not taking it as an actual "no".
More of a "maybe".
I don't know, babe.
Have you ever noticed
the ranchers around here
never tear down their old buildings
on the spread?
They just let them rot
back into the ground.
Okay, so, it's gonna take
a little rethink.
Did you know that the rack
of longhorns
over the bunkhouse door
have been there since it was
a working cattle ranch?
We'll repurpose them.
They would look really interesting
over one of the beds.
You know,
recycle, reuse, repurpose.
He's never gonna change
his mind, is he?
I'm sorry for the wait.
I'm so totally stressed.
What happened to Mitch?
Can you believe it?
She's barely been here a month,
and she's already taking a week off.
And my mom's out of town.
My life totally sucks.
Be back in a second.
What?
There it is!
My mechanical pencil.
How am I supposed to do
my geometry homework without it?
Well, I suppose you could do it
at home.
Jackson?
Your name is Jackson?
Who calls you Jackson?
Nobody.
Especially nobody who expects
to spend the summer in my house.
Keep the pencil.
Jack... son.
I called him Jackson.
Not once. Not twice.
Three or four times.
Jackson! Jackson! Jackson!
I couldn't stop myself.
Oh, my God.
That is serious.
It's not funny.
I plan to spend my summer here.
The whole summer?
Yeah, and how's that gonna work out
when Jack hates me?
That'll work fine.
Amy hates me,
and I'm still here.
She doesn't hate you.
It's the opposite of hate.
Oh, yeah?
She seems pretty friendly
with that Caleb guy.
What's his story?
He lives in a trailer,
he has a great big truck,
and his nickname is Odellicious.
How much time you got?
LOU: Ready?
Stand back.
What's the occasion, Lou?
I would like to propose a toast.
To the future!
To the future.
A future where nothing
ever changes.
Where day after day, we all know
exactly what we'll be doing.
Cooking meals and cleaning up
after a bunch of people
whose only concern is
"What's for dinner, Lou?
Did you buy any juice, Lou?"
A future with a bunch of old shacks
happily rotting away
in a clearing somewhere
that you can't see from the house
and you can't see from the barn,
but they got to be there forever
because they've always been there,
and nothing but nothing
is ever gonna change that.
Cheers.
Sorry I asked.
Have you seen Lou around?
Nope.
Have you seen my truck?
Maybe she decided to go
for a drive.
All the way back to New York.
Well, I'm glad you survived
the first couple days back
with your sense of humor intact.
Hey, for what it's won'th,
that hat I gave you
is hanging right there
if you still want it.
I found it in the garbage.
I guess we both got
a pretty good idea who put it there.
But you never asked him
why he didn't call.
Because I don't care.
Why don't you ask him?
I already did.
What did he say?
See, you do care!
I was lying.
I didn't really ask him.
But that doesn't change a thing.
Don't get me wrong, Dad.
I love Storm.
But, I mean,
what about this guy?
He's a champion, too.
Arert you, boy?
Well, Spartars a good horse,
but Storm's a great horse.
That's the problem.
I mean, it takes a lot of commitment
to show a horse at Storm's level.
I don't know if I can handle it.
I'm already falling behind at school
and at the ranch.
Amy, Amy, I can help you.
I can help you,
and we can do it together.
You're talking
about professional show jumping.
Yes. Professional show jumping.
And you're a natural.
You could be a champ, Amy.
You want to take this
to the next level,
you got the horse
that can do it now.
You've got a horse
that can take you all the way.
And you'll see
here, here, and here,
I've removed any mention
of your son-in-law Tim Fleming
as a beneficiary.
Ex-son-in-law.
I'll borrow your pen.
You fellas need a hit of java?
Joe? Rocket fuel?
Black gold?
How about I give you a few more
minutes to look at the menu?
Lou?
That's what it says.
Excuse me.
Lou, what are you doing?
Sorry, Grandpa.
I can't talk right now.
When I was in business school
getting my MBA,
one of the first things
they taught us
is that the customer
always comes first.
Are you still working on that?
Hey!
[Dishes clang]
Easy.
Good boy.
Amy, get out of there!
Get out of there, Amy!
Back off!
Amy!
You all right?
Come on.
One of these days,
that horse is gonna kill you.
Well, breaking a horse,
it's not exactly rocket science.
There are a lot
of different ways of doing it,
and this here
is the tried and true.
Well, have you done this before?
A few times, yeah.
With a mustang?
No, you got to catch them first.
Given you manage to rope
that mustang and get him into a pen,
you tie a leg up like so.
Then you just sort of get him
down to the ground.
Lay down.
Lay down, lay down.
Easy, brother.
Easy, easy.
You're okay.
Lay down.
Once you've got him
on the ground,
well, there's no doubt
about who's boss now.
And then when you let him up.
Easy, now. Easy.
Easy.
Well, you got yourself
a fully broke horse.
Never look at you
with evil intentions ever again.
Is that what you want, Amy?
A mustang for a house pet?
I didn't mean to offend anybody,
but I think your friend there
might not be cut out
for working with livestock.
I know it seems harsh,
but that's how cowboys
break horses around here.
It's just one way, Ty.
It's not my way.
But we got to do something.
We can't just let him sit
in that pen.
You're right, Amy.
We can't just leave that horse
in the pen.
What if he can't survive
on his own in the wild, huh?
What if he gets rounded up,
sold for meat, shot?
Maybe it's not for you to decide
what happens to him.
Why do you have to fight me
on everything?
This isn't about me or you.
Or that cowboy.
It's about the horse
and what's best for him.
Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
What makes you think
you know what's best?
Hey! Jack!
How's it going?
Can I get you a cup of coffee?
Afraid I'm all coffee-ed out.
Well, I figure
there had to be a reason
you're being so pigheaded
about the dude-ranch thing.
You're right.
There's a damn good reason.
Yeah, and I bet it's got nothing
to do with those bunkhouses.
It's probably got something
to do with me, huh?
Come on,
let me buy you a coffee.
Oh, I understand if you
don't want to talk about it
in front of the new waitress.
Oh.
You know, do you?
Which is why I'm willing
to take a backseat,
become a silent partner,
let you and Lou work things out.
Well, that solves
one of my problems right there.
Good. Good.
Well, I still have a problem.
I used to like to go in there
and have a quiet cup of coffee.
But now with Lou working there...
Well.
Hey.
Yeah?
Look, I didn't want to say anything
with Amy around.
Well, you know how girls get
about horses.
But that mustang.
Oh, he'd sooner kill her
than look at her twice.
Yeah, that's what I told her.
So you understand, then?
I mean, you either break a horse
to ride him or you let him go.
And, well, personally speaking,
I'd be letting him go.
- Hey.
Ah, thank you.
Those aren't for you.
Oh!
I warned you.
They're day-olds for the horses.
I'll bring you some fresh ones
tomorrow.
You can't actually be serious
about working at Maggie's.
Why not?
The hospitality industry
is one of the fastest-growing sectors
in today's economy.
Hotels, bars, restaurants,
equine retreats,
or as this family likes to call them,
dude ranches.
So, yes, I am very serious.
Okay, we need the money,
and I need a challenge.
So, if Grandpa can't see that,
then everyone else will.
Oh, my God, I smell like a BLT.
I got to take a shower.
You promise you won't hate me?
Why would I hate you?
I read Jack's will.
I had to!
It was just sitting there.
Almost out in the open.
So, are you in it?
No. But don't get too excited.
You aren't either.
Let me guess.
It's all Lou and Amy.
Yeah, that's what I don't get.
Lou's gonna get
her dude ranch anyway,
so why doesn't he just
give it to her now?
Maybe he likes the way things are.
Or the way they used to be.
You mean, he's stuck in the past?
Oh, my God.
- Should I talk to him about that?
- Yeah, right.
Tell him you read his will
and you have some suggestions.
Would that be before
or after you ask him
if he's still good with you
moving in for the summer?
There it is again.
[Horse whinnies off in the distance]
You really think he has a mate?
Yeah. Listen.
[Horse whinnies off in the distance]
Wow. Sounds really Ionely.
You know, you and Amy,
I really think
you should get back together.
It's not that simple, Mallory.
It never is.
[Horse whinnies off in the distance]
[Horse grunts]
I see you finally made a decision
about that mustang.
What?
What are you talking about?
These are good.
Ty!
Ty, quick!
It's Ghost.
Ty, come on, we have to find him!
He's gone!
I'm not gonna help you find him.
Why not?
I let him go.
You what?
I set him free.
Who do you think you are?
You don't even care
about that horse!
I care about you, Amy,
and I don't want to see you hurt.
Hey, Amy.
I'll help you find that mustang.
I'm betting he's most likely
headed up the river valley
towards the mountains.
If some rancher puts a bullet
in his head,
I am never gonna forgive you.
Hey.
You know, Lou, I thought it was tough
getting time with you before,
but this is ridiculous.
How about romantic?
Tall, dark stranger.
Hot waitress.
I've got sensible shoes.
I have a little apron,
a name tag.
So, tell me about your specials.
Well, the veal scallopini
is very tasty.
Sounds good.
But a lot of the regulars are going
for the chicken pot pie.
I'll take them both.
Finished off with a hot-fudge sundae?
You got to stop working here, Lou.
You're driving me crazy.
Well, I got to do something.
That equine retreat
means a lot to me.
So, until I can come up
with another plan...
Well, if this keeps up,
I'm gonna have to trade my truck in
for a double wide.
I got to admit, I was
pretty impressed back there.
That's some temper you got.
You and Ty, I'm betting
there's a lot of history there.
Yeah, history.
That's a good way of putting it.
You seen Caleb around?
He took off with Amy.
They went after the mustang.
Mustang?
Last I saw, he was in the pen.
He can't jump that fence.
He didn't jump it.
I left the gate open.
Well, that was
a damn stupid thing to do!
Why?
When you truck a horse
like that out of here,
he's got a good chance
of making it somewhere.
You just let him loose,
he's got to cover a lot of miles,
get past a lot of cattle ranchers,
and plenty of them would
just as soon shoot a stray
as keep him moving.
Okay. Maybe it was stupid.
It seemed like a good idea
at the time.
Yeah, well,
the stupid ones always do.
Okay, I think we should split up.
I'll go along the ridge,
and you stay along this way.
Well, there's not much point.
What? You want to give up
just like that?
We don't know where he is.
He could be anywhere.
No, all I'm saying is
unless that horse
can cross rivers or jump fences,
there's only one way for him
to get back up there.
Okay. We'll go this way.
Look! Over there.
Just down by the trees.
Ty was right!
He's with another horse! A mare!
[Gunshot]
- Someone's shooting!
- They're just over there.
[Gunshot]
They're gonna kill them!
Amy! Amy! No!
[Gunshot]
No, stop! Stop!
Grandpa?
We're not shooting to kill him, Amy,
but someone else most likely will.
We're just hoping
to keep him moving.
We could still catch that horse.
You could help
instead of chasing him away!
Ty, why don't you take that
in the truck?
What are you doing, Grandpa?
Listen, Amy, I know
you've got this thing with Ty
and that mustang all mixed up.
What are you talking about?
You try to hold on
to something like that horse
and you end up
squeezing the life out of it.
So, you got to let go.
And until you do,
you're not doing yourself
or anyone any favors.
Grandpa.
You go on home now.
Me and Ty, we'll keep pushing
those horses a few more miles
till they're good and safe
up in the mountains.
Let's go.
[Sighs]
Um...
I was just wondering.
Did you see Ghost again?
Yeah, a couple of times.
Him and that other one.
Yeah, it was a mare.
You were right.
So, how far did you get?
All the way past the logging road
until we couldn't go any further.
That's good.
Yeah.
Someone's been doing
a little Dumpster diving.
Okay, maybe I was wrong
about that horse.
But that still doesn't mean
what you did was right.
You mean letting him go?
Sort of.
I just don't know why you didn't even
try to call me or anything!
Amy, I don't know.
I wanted to. I just...
I didn't know what to say.
Amy, I just...
Here, you're gonna need this
if you're staying.
Bring him around.
Thatagirl.
That's it. That's it. You got it!
Amazing! He's incredible!
He just jumped that
like it was nothing.
[Laughs]
TIM: So, you think you can win
a few ribbons with that horse?
AMY: Maybe.
TIM: What do you say?
Go one more time?
AMY: Okay, yeah.
Watch it!
Hey, Lou, perfect timing.
Have you got a minute?
Not now, Grandpa.
Well, it's about your equestrian
restrooms, haven, cure thing.
Dude ranch, Grandpa.
Let's just call
a spade a spade, okay?
Okay, then, dude ranch.
It's gonna take us awhile.
You want me to clear it
with Maggie?
I'm sure she wouldn't mind
you slipping out.
Yeah, I'm sure she won't either,
probably, Grandpa,
because she just fired me, so...
Oh.
She said I was underqualified.
[Laughs]
He looks ready to go.
Yeah, but the only problem
is the jumps.
You want me to put them
down a notch.
No, the opposite.
Let's go for it.
Yeah, that's good.
Just one.
Go big or go home.
♪ Walking out in the freezing rain ♪
♪ I feel nothing
'cause I'm numb with pain ♪
♪ I'm looking forward
and looking back ♪
♪ On this day ♪
My grandfather built
these bunkhouses.
I've heard.
So no one's tearing them down.
You brought me all the way out here
just to tell me that again?
Well, thing is, Lou,
they're solid as a rock.
I get it, Grandpa.
We're not tearing down
your damn bunkhouses!
That's right,
because we're fixing them up.
New roofs, new windows,
new porches.
What about my eco-toilets?
Could put in an outhouse
over behind that tree line there.
An outhouse!
Ecologically friendly
and authentically Western!
♪ Walking out in the freezing rain ♪
♪ I feel nothing
'cause I'm numb with pain ♪
♪ I'm looking forward
and looking back ♪
♪ Looking forward
I still don't know
what I'm doing here.
You're earning your keep.
Now, you expect to stay here
for the summer or not?
Start digging.
Who knows? You do a good job,
I might find it in my cold heart
to leave a little something for you
in my will.
♪ I'm looking forward
and looking back ♪
♪ Looking forward
♪ On this day ♪
♪ Prayed
last night ♪
♪ "Dear God,
please no" ♪
♪ But I was never good
at letting go ♪
♪ I'm looking forward
and looking back ♪
♪ Looking forward
♪ On this day ♪
♪ I'm looking forward
and looking back ♪
♪ Looking forward
♪ On this day ♪
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org